## How to scale generative AI

The best enterprise-wide roadmaps group use cases in thematic clusters, outlining the intent to evolve them over time. Leaders are starting with low-risk use cases and launching them in safe environments, with the ambition to test, learn, and gain confidence before going live with more mature, disruptive solutions. For instance, a company may prioritize an internal knowledge management chatbot before evolving it into an external-facing chatbot using similarly unstructured data. Or a company may begin with a patient-facing solution that relies on a human to mitigate risk, with the aim of eventually creating a fully automated version.

For example, Syneos Health, which has a multiyear deal with Microsoft to leverage OpenAI’s GPT technology, brought together a team of data scientists and business function leaders to create centralized, reusable machine-learning building blocks. In addition to working on a chatbot that can search across 400,000 clinician protocols, the biopharma company says that it is exploring applications across the value chain, from clinical trials to marketing platforms. Sanofi is also laying the groundwork for AI at scale by launching Plai, an app that harnesses internal data across the organization to generate predictions and simulations, giving decision makers a comprehensive view of the company’s activities and insights.

To support a prioritized roadmap, industry leaders are also ensuring that they have the appropriate technical backbone in place. Many have signed contracts with multiple generative AI foundation model providers to experiment and understand the nuanced differences in their performance.