For example, within six weeks, one healthcare leader was able to develop a working pilot of an AI-enabled chatbot to help answer pharma reps’ medical questions on a subset of its products. It significantly boosted contact center agent productivity by improving the number of issue resolutions per hour. Similarly, Eli Lilly estimates that it has saved around 1.4 million hours of rote human activity since 2022 through automation and technology. With further AI investments, it aims to reach 2.4 million hours by the end of the year.

Other leading pharma companies have made rapid gains in a range of areas, from research and development to support functions. One created an accurate model for clinical trial patient identification in a quarter of the time needed for previous machine learning models. Several have succeeded with generative AI tools that draft summaries of regulatory filing content or responses to regulator questions. Others have focused on chatbots for knowledge management, enabling employees to quickly query internal documents.

Some have pursued commercial endeavors: For instance, companies are already piloting generative AI to streamline salesforce tasks, including dynamic content generation, and one company is using AI to draft custom ad copy according to US Food and Drug Administration guidelines.

The level, speed, and success of subscale experimentation has been impressive. But as early wins breed interest and energy across the organization, it’s increasingly critical for executives to shift from disconnected pockets of generative AI experimentation to an enterprise-wide program. Otherwise, the organization can trip over itself, becoming the bottleneck to its own potential.

Industry pioneers haven’t just built two to three proofs of concept. They have scaled those proofs of concept and encouraged adoption. They have also created thoughtfully structured backlogs with use cases throughout the